# Spring Batch Job Launcher Application

This application provides a simple REST API to launch predefined Spring Batch jobs on demand. It includes a job controller for manually triggering jobs via HTTP requests, a scheduler for automated job execution, and a service layer to interface with the Spring Batch JobLauncher. The application also handles common job execution exceptions gracefully, providing informative responses to the caller.

# Features

* REST API to manually trigger batch jobs. 
* Scheduled tasks for automatic job execution. 
* Health endpoints for application status monitoring.

# Predefined Jobs

The application supports the launching of the following predefined jobs:

* _'OutPayHeader'_ 
* _'Policy'_
* _'SurValue'_

# Health Endpoints

The application includes health endpoints provided by Spring Actuator to monitor the health and performance of the application. These endpoints can be accessed as follows:

**Health Check: /actuator/health** - Provides basic application health information. 

**Info: /actuator/info** - Displays application information.

# Using the Application

## Triggering Jobs via REST API

You can manually trigger the predefined jobs using the REST API. Below are the curl commands to launch each job:

### Launch the OutPayHeader Job

git bash
```console
curl -X GET "http://localhost:8080/launch-job?jobName=OutPayHeader"
```

### Launch the Policy Job

git bash
```console
curl -X GET "http://localhost:8080/launch-job?jobName=Policy"
```

### Launch the SurValue Job

git bash
```console
curl -X GET "http://localhost:8080/launch-job?jobName=SurValue"
```


## Steps to Start the Application

### Prerequisites:

* Java JDK 17 or newer. 
* Maven for building the application. 
* Access to a terminal or command prompt. (Git Bash)
* Clone the Repository:

bash
```console
https://github.com/gyopos94/NN_Homework.git
cd <project-directory>
```
### Build the Application:

Use Maven to compile the project and create the executable JAR file:

bash
```console
mvn clean install
```

### Run the Application:

After building the application, you can run it using the following command:

bash
```console
java -jar target/<your-built-jar-file>.jar
```
Replace <**your-built-jar-file**> with the name of the JAR file generated by Maven, typically found in the target directory.

### Verify the Application is Running:

Access the health endpoint to verify that the application is up and running:

bash
```console
curl http://localhost:8080/actuator/health
```
You should receive a response indicating the application's health status, such as **{"status":"UP"}**.
